---
layout:     post
title:      "#EsnMarmaraCokGuzel"
subtitle:   "Erasmus 2018/2019"
date:       2019-03-19 13:00:00
author:     "Eda"
header-img: "img/post-bg-2015.jpg"
tags:
    - Marmara
    - Erasmus
    - Experience
---

> “Welcome to my erasmus experiences. ”


Erasmus 2018/2019

I want to start my report by saying, that I am more than grateful that I had the chance to join such a great ESN Group with great People.
Start at the beginning, we had a Welcome Week which was very organized and with lots of different activities. I had the chance to meet the other erasmus students easily, build up connection and also to discover a small part of the big city Istanbul where I haven't been before.
It was more exciting to discover the city, for example Kadiköy or sights like the Sultan Ahmet Mosque, with the other erasmus students. Therefore we were also able to get to know each other better.
The Welcome Week was one of the best organizations of the ESN Marmara. Therefore we had also the chance to meet the ESN Buddies which was a big advantage because some of us didnt have a Buddy since then.
An other organization we liked was the Social week in that we could bring up something good for the society and the people in need, which gave us the feeling that we can also get the „Tuz“ in the „Corba“.
With the City Trips we discovered the beautiful cities and also met new people from other universities.
We didn’t get bored in Istanbul, because there were enough parties which we could join. Like the erasmus parties in the Ritim Bar, the Boat Parties and the Gala.
After the welcome week we had the chance to discover Istanbul by ourselves. Our weekly Pub Crawl was really helpful to not lose the contact with our ESN Buddies and the other erasmus students,. We were able to get in contact with the erasmus students and buddies we hadn‘t met before. Also the games like „Blind Date“ gave us the chance to get in contact with completely strangers.
Even if I didn‘t met my ESN Buddy, I didn‘t feel lost because there were so many other Buddies I knew I can ask them everything and they would help me. So for me it was like I had more than one Buddy
They were really helpful and took care of everyone of us. We got close with all of them really fast and we built up a big family

About Istanbul are many things to say, but the most important is that you have to discover it  your own to understand what a huge and wonderful city it is. There are always parts of the city you have not enough time to see. Even one semester wasn‘t enough  to see all the beautys. We met so many people on the streets, in the fairy and in the restaurants, which were so helpful and friendly which made it harder to leave Istanbul. The atmosphere of the city, the bosphorus, the late night and even more made our stay more attractive.

I will never forget the people I met, with who I become really close and dont lose contact. Also never forget the experience I made in this big city – and I also know that now I can say - Istanbul is my second home.

I am thankful for all the experience I could made together with the ESN Marmara Group, our Buddies and of course the erasmus students.